README.md, before:

# numericalderivative

## What is it?

The goal of this project is to compute the first derivative of a function
using finite difference formulas.
The difficulty with these formulas is that it must use a finite difference 
step which must be neither too large (otherwise truncation error dominates 
the error) nor too small (otherwise condition error dominates).
To solve this issue, the module provides algorithms to compute an approximate
optimal finite difference step.

Furthermore, this package provides benchmark problems for numerical
differentiation.

This module allows you to do this:

```python
import math
import numericalderivative as nd

def scaled_exp(x):
    alpha = 1.0e6
    return math.exp(-x / alpha)


h0 = 1.0e5
x = 1.0e0
algorithm = nd.SteplemanWinarsky(scaled_exp, x)
h_optimal, iterations = algorithm.compute_step(h0)
f_prime_approx = algorithm.compute_first_derivative(h_optimal)
```

## Documentation & references

- [Package documentation](https://mbaudin47.github.io/numericalderivative/main/index.html)

## Authors

* Michaël Baudin, 2024

## Installation

To install from Github:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mbaudin47/numerical_derivative.git
cd numerical_derivative
python setup.py install
```

To install from Pip:

```bash
pip install numericalderivative
```

## References
- Gill, P. E., Murray, W., Saunders, M. A., & Wright, M. H. (1983). 
  Computing forward-difference intervals for numerical optimization. 
  SIAM Journal on Scientific and Statistical Computing, 4(2), 310-321.
- Adaptive numerical differentiation
  R. S. Stepleman and N. D. Winarsky
  Journal: Math. Comp. 33 (1979), 1257-1264 
- Dumontet, J., & Vignes, J. (1977). 
  Détermination du pas optimal dans le calcul des dérivées sur ordinateur. 
  RAIRO. Analyse numérique, 11 (1), 13-25.

## Roadmap
- Add finite_differences from menum and cite (Baudin, 2023).
Reference : https://github.com/mbaudin47/menum_code
https://github.com/mbaudin47/menum_code/blob/cec64dea8d205da796d1f578b42948115257b3bb/Scripts-Eleves/Py3/numdiff.py#L801

- Implement the method of:

Shi, H. J. M., Xie, Y., Xuan, M. Q., & Nocedal, J. (2022). Adaptive finite-difference interval estimation for noisy derivative-free optimization. _SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing_, _44_(4), A2302-A2321.

Commit message:

Draft of general F.D. formula (#6)
* Draft of general F.D. formula

* Create a new test for GeneralFiniteDifference

* Fixed the doc bug

* Organize the F.D. formula

* Remove the TODOs which are done

* Added new polynomial benchmark problem

* Implements the computation of the error.

* Cleanup GeneralFD. Add doc. Make compute_indices and compute_coefficients private

* Fixes the doc

* Adds an example for F.D. formulas

* Remove figsize from the examples

* Add new examples in the API doc

* Implement exact step and error for third derivative

* Adds Scipy as a dependency

* Added Scipy to Github workflow

* Add an example of General FD

README.md, after:

# numericalderivative

## What is it?

The goal of this project is to compute the derivative of a function
using finite difference formulas.
The difficulty with these formulas is that it must use a 
step which must be neither too large (otherwise the truncation error dominates 
the error) nor too small (otherwise the condition error dominates).
For this purpose, it provides exact methods (based on the value 
of higher derivatives) and approximate methods (based on function values).
Furthermore, the module provides finite difference formulas for the 
first, second, third or any arbitrary order derivative of a function.
Finally, this package provides 15 benchmark problems for numerical
differentiation.

This module makes it possible to do this:

```python
import math
import numericalderivative as nd

def scaled_exp(x):
    alpha = 1.0e6
    return math.exp(-x / alpha)


h0 = 1.0e5  # This is the initial step size
x = 1.0e0
algorithm = nd.SteplemanWinarsky(scaled_exp, x)
h_optimal, iterations = algorithm.compute_step(h0)
f_prime_approx = algorithm.compute_first_derivative(h_optimal)
```

## Documentation & references

- [Package documentation](https://mbaudin47.github.io/numericalderivative/main/index.html)

## Authors

* Michaël Baudin, 2024

## Installation

To install from Github:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mbaudin47/numerical_derivative.git
cd numerical_derivative
python setup.py install
```

To install from Pip:

```bash
pip install numericalderivative
```

## References
- Gill, P. E., Murray, W., Saunders, M. A., & Wright, M. H. (1983). 
  Computing forward-difference intervals for numerical optimization. 
  SIAM Journal on Scientific and Statistical Computing, 4(2), 310-321.
- Adaptive numerical differentiation
  R. S. Stepleman and N. D. Winarsky
  Journal: Math. Comp. 33 (1979), 1257-1264 
- Dumontet, J., & Vignes, J. (1977). 
  Détermination du pas optimal dans le calcul des dérivées sur ordinateur. 
  RAIRO. Analyse numérique, 11 (1), 13-25.

## Roadmap
- Implement the method of:

Shi, H. J. M., Xie, Y., Xuan, M. Q., & Nocedal, J. (2022). Adaptive finite-difference interval estimation for noisy derivative-free optimization. _SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing_, _44_(4), A2302-A2321.
