doc/index.rst, before:

.. numericalderivative documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Feb 14 09:17:40 2022.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

numericalderivative documentation
=================================

.. image:: _static/error_vs_h.png
     :align: left
     :scale: 50%

numericalderivative is a module for numerical differentiation.

The goal of this project is to compute the first derivative of a function using finite difference formulas.
The difficulty with these formulas is that it must use a finite difference 
step which must be neither too large (otherwise truncation error dominates 
the error) nor too small (otherwise condition error dominates).
To solve this issue, the module provides algorithms to compute an approximate
optimal finite difference step.

Furthermore, this package provides benchmark problems for numerical
differentiation.

Documentation about numericalderivative can be found `here <https://numericalderivative.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_

User documentation
------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3

   user_manual/user_manual

Examples 
--------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   examples/examples

References
----------
- Gill, P. E., Murray, W., Saunders, M. A., & Wright, M. H. (1983). Computing forward-difference intervals for numerical optimization. SIAM Journal on Scientific and Statistical Computing, 4(2), 310-321.
- Adaptive numerical differentiation. R. S. Stepleman and N. D. Winarsky. Journal: Math. Comp. 33 (1979), 1257-1264
- Dumontet, J., & Vignes, J. (1977). Détermination du pas optimal dans le calcul des dérivées sur ordinateur. RAIRO. Analyse numérique, 11 (1), 13-25.

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

General fd search (#9)
* Fixes the doc

* Access the threshold in the algorithms. Clarify the examples. Plot the condition error in Gill, Murray, Saunders and Wright

* Add comments to the examples. Plot the condition error for G, M, S & W

* Fixes the notations of a sequence

* Added comments to the examples. Adds equations to the docstrings.

* Access the history of intermediate steps during the algorithm

* First draft of SXXN

* Fixed algorithm. Finalize example.

* Added new unit test of SXXNForward. Created benchmark.

* Fixes duplicate SXXNForward example

* Improve benchmark problem: customize x and interval

* Set SXXN example to Scaled exponential

* Finished implementation of Shi, Xie, Xuan & Nocedal for the forward formula

* Rename into ShiXieXuanNocedal

* Fixed examples

* Replaced centered with central

* Added a pretty-print of a problem

* Fixed formatting of examples and equations

* Reduce number of points in plots to make it faster

* Add a caution comment on GMSW problem

* Add a paper to estimate epsilon

* Clarified and simplified the example scripts. Added comments. Clarified exception messages.

* Improved Stepleman & Winarky inverse problem result. Create a benchmark function. Renamed BuildBenchmark into build_benchmark

* Fixed bug in pretty-print of problem. Fixed sin benchmark problem with GMSW.

* Added a comment on the polynomial problem for Dumontet & Vignes method

* Fixes the benchmark

doc/index.rst, after:

.. numericalderivative documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Feb 14 09:17:40 2022.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

numericalderivative documentation
=================================

.. image:: _static/error_vs_h.png
     :align: left
     :scale: 50%

numericalderivative is a module for numerical differentiation.

The goal of this project is to compute the derivative of a function
using finite difference formulas.
The difficulty with these formulas is that it must use a 
step which must be neither too large (otherwise the truncation error dominates 
the error) nor too small (otherwise the condition error dominates).
For this purpose, it provides exact methods (based on the value 
of higher derivatives) and approximate methods (based on function values).
Furthermore, the module provides finite difference formulas for the 
first, second, third or any arbitrary order derivative of a function.
Finally, this package provides 15 benchmark problems for numerical
differentiation.

Documentation about numericalderivative can be found `here <https://mbaudin47.github.io/numericalderivative/main/index.html>`_

User documentation
------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3

   user_manual/user_manual

Examples 
--------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3

   examples/examples

References
----------
- Gill, P. E., Murray, W., Saunders, M. A., & Wright, M. H. (1983). Computing forward-difference intervals for numerical optimization. SIAM Journal on Scientific and Statistical Computing, 4(2), 310-321.
- Adaptive numerical differentiation. R. S. Stepleman and N. D. Winarsky. Journal: Math. Comp. 33 (1979), 1257-1264
- Dumontet, J., & Vignes, J. (1977). Détermination du pas optimal dans le calcul des dérivées sur ordinateur. RAIRO. Analyse numérique, 11 (1), 13-25.

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`search`
